# Compressive-Sensing-Based Inference
This work deals with high-level inference (face recognition) using compressive sensing (CS). Images are compressed using a compressive sensing scheme and the generated compressed samples are used as features for the linear support vector machine (SVM). The purpose of this work is to verify the possibility of performing high-level inference on-chip using CS. The image sensor acquires the image in a compressed domain performing acquisition and compression at the same time. These compressed samples are obtained by projecting the pixels' values in some low-dimensional space using a measurement matrix. These compressed image samples should require less number of bits as compared to the conventional image sensor. The smaller the number of bits needed for a compressed image better is the compression. These compressed image samples possess the information of signal and hence can be directly used as feature input to linear SVM.
## How does it function?
This work has two main files Face_detection_using_CS.m and sigma_delta_UD_Cunter_col.m and the third is a readme.md. The first file is the main file and holds the code for the main program. The second file is a function to perform Sigma-Delta ADC which is called by the first file. Keep the two files in the same folders. The downloaded dataset (links given below) must be kept in rootFolder (keep this also in the same folder as that of files) with the name of subfolders as mentioned in the main program (Face_detection_using_CS.m). Run one of the cells among three, corresponding to the dataset being simulated. The result of the program is the accuracy of SVM on the test dataset. Since the program uses random functions ('randi' and 'randsrc') and hence multiple runs will give different answers as no seed has been used to observe the performance of the scheme for different random runs with different pixels selected and modulated at each run. To get the average performance, it is proposed that run the program 10 times and take the average accuracy. A single run also produces accuracy in the vicinity of the reported results.
### databases can be downloaded from the following links
1. AT&T dataset https://www.kaggle.com/kasikrit/att-database-of-faces (original link https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/
research/dtg/attarchive/facedatabase.htm)
2. Extended Yale B (cropped) http://vision.ucsd.edu/~leekc/ExtYaleDatabase/ExtYaleB.html
3. Georgia Tech Face Database https://computervisiononline.com/dataset/1105138700
